[MUSIC]
In this lecture, we'll continue
a little bit about the board and
the microcontroller and its properties.
But then we'll start talking
about the IDE itself.
So that's the software environment that
you use to actually do the coding,
and compile the code and upload the code.
So first about the microcontroller,
over here we've got a bunch of
data about the microcontroller.
So just some statistics, high level
information about the microcontroller that
you would find at the beginning of any
datasheet about this microcontroller.
So it's ATmega328,
it's an 8-bit microcontroller,
operating voltage is at five volts, so its
pins are going from zero to five volts,
the input voltage recommended and
the input voltage limits.
So what those are is if you're
driving it with external power,
what voltage would you
want to supply to it?
So you want to give it 7 to
12 volts that is preferred.
And what it does is operating voltage
at 5 volts it'll step that down, but
you want to get it in the range of 7
to 12 volts if you're gonna do that.
Yeah, not through the USB but
through external input.
Digital I/O pins, it's got 14 digital
I/O pins, numbers zero through 13.
Analog input pins, it's got six
analog input pins at A0 through A5.
DC current per pin and
DC current on the 3.3V pin.
So DC current, why that matters
basically what that says is how much
current can be supplied out of that pin?
So the Arduino can only drive a certain
amount of current out of a pin because
it's a small device and
only can push a certain amount of current.
So say the DC current for an IO pin is
typically 40, the max is 40 milli- amps.
That's not a lot.
And that's important to know.
Because that tell you,
that limits what you can drive.
So, for instance, if you're turning
on an LED, 40 milliamps is fine.
In fact, you can only push maybe 20
milliamps through an LED before you
fry the thing.
But if you wanna drive a motor or
something like that, 40 milliamps is not.
So if you want to drive a motor,
you gotta do something else.
Actually, we'll talk about
that later in the next course.
So flash memory, flash memory is,
let's see, it's not in volatile storage.
I happen to have one right here.
It's what you would find in
something like this, right?
Any thumb drive, right?
That's flash memory.
It's not in volatile memory, and the
ATMega328 actually has some flash memory.
All processors have some
kind of flash memory, and
that's where you store
the programs that you run.
So nonvolatile memory
means that it stores and
holds its data, even if it loses power.
So that thumbdrive I just showed you,
you unplug it,
it's unplugged from power right now, but
it's storing this data, it's holding it.
So that's what you want for your program,
so your program's going to flash memory,
and it's only got 32 kilobytes of flash
memory, which is not much at all.
But it's enough for what we're doing.
SRAM, SRAM is just, that stands for
static read-only memory.
Random access memory.
Standard random access memory.
Excuse me, static random access memory.
And that is a, it's just regular
memory but it's volatile memory.
So, what that means is when you turn off
the power anything in SRAM disappears.
And so, when you power it on,
again, you've gotta reload SRAM.
So SRAM is a memory that uses at runtime,
and 3 kilobytes,
which is not much.
EEPROM is like Flash but different.
It's controllable in individual
bytes rather than whole blocks.
Very little of it, and
clock speed is 16 MHz, so it can do, say,
roughly 16 million cycles a second,
so 16 million operations in a second.
And so that's slow compared to a desktop,
which might be three, four gigahertz.
But, it's plenty fast for
the type of things we want to do.
And an 8-bit processor like the mega 328,
that might cost you $1.50 say,
that ballpark.
If you wanted to buy
an individual processor.
It might cost you $1.50.
The board itself, the whole Arduino board,
costs $40, maybe less, $35.
You can it a little cheaper on Amazon,
something like that.
But the board has a lot
of other stuff on it.
It's much more convenient to use.
If you just get the bare chip
you can't program it directly,
you need a programmer and all this.
Where the board gives you all that.
So, these things are pretty cheap.
All right, let's take a look at the IDEs.
So, Arduino Integrated
Development Environment.
So an IDE is a software tool
that you use for programming.
So the main thing in here,
actually if you look at the IDE,
the main window right there is
a text editor for writing code.
So you put your code right in that text
editor and you can type it in there.
And right now,
we just got a simple shell in there.
But you can type whatever code
you want to that text editor.
Now above that, it's got the menu item,
the file and all this to say,
regular commands, save file,
open file, that sort of thing.
All the commands are in
those menu options.
But underneath that
there are these buttons,
that way you have the most
common options in there.
So the most common operations,
they put in the form of buttons.
But if you want to look at every
operation that you could do,
you can look through the menus and
find every operation.
But the buttons are the most important.
And at the bottom is the message area.
And that message area is usually for
message areas, so when you're compiling
and you get some kind of an error,
it puts it in the message area.
So this is the basic IDE,
what it looks like.
And you're gonna download this from
Arduino.cc, and install it and run it,
and when you double-click and
you run it you'll get a window
that looks something like this.
Now just to go over the main
functions to the buttons.
The buttons have the common,
most useful operations.
So those buttons across the top row.
Here's what the are.
First there's a verify button,
the check, that compiles the code.
In the act of compiling,
it checks for errors.
If there is an error,
it is detected on the compile.
So often you will want
to compile your code.
They call iy 'verify' but you're
compiling the code to see if it's not,
it doesn't completely
check that it's correct.
It just checks that there
are no compile errors, right?
If there's a compile error or
a syntax error or
something like that,
then it'll be caught in the verify.
Now Upload compiles the code and
uploads it to the board.
So it does both in one fell swoop.
Now so Upload can only work if
you have the board connected.
You can verify the code without connecting
the Arduino to your desktop, laptop.
But for Upload,
you gotta have it connected.
New creates a new sketch, a new program.
Open opens an existing,
save saves a sketch to a file
in a directory of your choice.
And serial monitor opens a window
to communicate with the board.
We'll get into more of this
later in the next course.
Actually, later on in this course we'll
get into what the serial monitor does.
But the idea is it opens
a separate window.
So, one limitation of Arduino's embedded
processes in general Is that
they don't have screens, right?
A desktop, laptop has a screen and
a keyboard, right?
So it's very easy for you to send data in
and read data out through the screen and
the keyboard, but
an embedded device does not.
Your Adruino, it doesn't.
All it has is a couple LEDs
sitting on it and some pins.
So If you wanna send data to it.
You wanna type data to it, or
read data from it, like, on a screen,
you can't do it directly.
So that's what the serial monitor is for.
It's a monitor.
You start it, and
it'll open up a window on your machine.
And it allows you to type text and
send it straight to the Arduino,
also the Arduino can print
stuff on the screen for
you and you can see it in
the serial monitor window.
So we'll use that later on in the course,
actually in the next module
we'll talk about that more.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]